So now what can we do here,
How can we optimize our startup time? Size is
okay,
especially keep in mind
it will be even much smaller later,
we're not having multiple round trips.
Now one thing that could still be interesting is to check how much of the code which we download initially
here is actually being used because if we have a lot of unused code, then we might be downloading too
much here,
we might be downloading code which we don't even need yet,
now thankfully Chrome helps us with that.
If you press escape here in the dev tools in network tab, then this bottom tab here opens and there you
will have a coverage tab. Now in coverage,
you can check how much of the Javascript code is getting used,
click on this instrument coverage button here and it will tell you how much code is unused
and in this example here, you see around 41% of my Javascript code is unused.
Now if we click on that, you see here at the top this opens and there you have a green line next to
code which is being used and a red line next to code which is not being used.
Now this here is our code as it is produced by webpack, so therefore here we also see code which is actually
injected by webpack which we didn't write,
so there we'll have little influence on whether we need it or not.
You can go to the webpack folder here in the sources tab, there to the .folder and there you will
find your source non-optimized folder and in here, you'll find your original files and also there you
see if code is getting used or not and what you see here for example is that a lot of the code is getting
used but for example in product management, delete product, all this code here is not really getting used,
add product is also not getting used which means it didn't execute yet and here in the rendering js,
we also see all that code is not getting used, though that is actually not correct, this is not detected correctly,
you see it detected that the for each code was used and therefore actually this code did execute here.
So that's not displayed correctly but indeed what will be true is that for example delete product is
certainly not executed yet because we haven't deleted any product and the same for add product, we haven't
added any product
so this function wasn't used at all or to be precise, the code in there didn't execute yet. The function
itself is actually used because it's referenced in shop.js where I have an event listener which points
at add product.
So that is getting used here indirectly,
it just didn't execute yet. Still, such unused code is an opportunity for improvement
with the help of lazy loading, so this import syntax where you only import a file and download it when
you really need it instead of upfront.
So let's do that, let's add such lazy loading here to make sure we use more of the code which we initially
download or put in other words, that we download less code initially. So back in our code, we see in the
end by pointing at add product here
but as long as the user doesn't click the button here, the add product function in the product management
file is not getting executed,
same for delete product, as long as a button wasn't clicked,
this is not getting executed.
So how could we improve this then?
Well we can go to shop.js for example and there, maybe up here, we could add an add product function
here instead of importing it from product management and add product in the end is a function, here I'm
using an arrow function, of course we could also create it like this.
So it is a function which will receive an event object because we bound it to the submit event here
and in there, I now want to call import as a function which you learned about in the modules course
section, this is supported in Javascript and also by webpack when it analyzes and bundles your code
and here I want to import product-management.js, here you need to add this extension and this gives
you a promise,
of course we could use async await too. The promise will give you the module and I'll just have a mod
here and this module will have or this module object will have everything this file exports.
So in our case, here we would call add product then from this module when we eventually imported it and
forward that event object.
Now this theoretically should only load this code when we need it but keep in mind, I'm still importing
something from up there which always gets imported,
so the whole file has to be loaded anyways because I need one function from it, not all functions but
still a file can either be imported entirely or not at all.
So if I reach out to products here in this shop.js file, then this whole product management file is
getting added to my bundle
and whilst this won't break the code, it will also not really help.
So if we save here and this compiles and we reload, you'll see in the end here if I try to add a product,
this works
but we certainly didn't gain anything,
instead we just actually added more code
but maybe we can optimize our code.
We could add a new file and for that, I'll actually create a new folder, optimized, so that we can see
the difference in the end and I'll bring over these files here and in the webpack-config.js file,
I'll now switch to optimized which should get imported, the same here in the production webpack-config file,
entrypoint is indeed optimized folder and then restart the dev server and now in the optimized folder,
we could add a products.js file and in product management, we can grab the products here
put them into products.js
and there, turn this into a constant and export it so that
now in product management, I can import products from ./products. Now I'll actually import it as prods
so that here I can also create a new variable here, products,
which holds prods here, so that when I use products and set it down there,
this still works because now this is a variable in this file initialized with the data from
this file.
Now why did I do that?
Why do I store products in a separate file? So that I can now grab this init product function here and
remove it from product management and actually add it to shop.js which is where I'm running this function.
So here we can add this init products function,
now we just need access to render products and to products, so we can import products from
./products and import render products from ./rendering.
We also pass a delete product thing to render products and if we have a look at our code, we find out
that the delete product thing here is actually a pointer at the delete product function here because
inside of the rendering function when we create all these products here, I add a button where when we
click on it, I want to execute that delete product function. So a pointer to the function that should
be executed upon such a button click is received by the render products function here in the rendering
file and therefore whenever we call render products from anywhere, I need to pass a pointer at this function.
Now that's a problem in shop.js because delete product is a function defined in product management
and I'm actually trying to get rid of that import.
Well we can do the same thing as with add product, here
I'll just name it delete product, import product management dynamically and then there call delete
product.
Now delete product when being called needs to get the prodId of the product that should be deleted,
so here I expect to get that product ID as an argument so that I can forward it and then here when
I pass delete product to render product, we're all good.
Now if you're wondering where this ID is coming from,
well I'm passing a pointer at delete product to render products, so inside of render products this
ID has to be passed and indeed, it is,
so that will work. Now with that, we can remove the product management import here and fix that typo
and now we got rid of that extra import,
now let's see if that helps us in any way. If we now reload, you see our code here shrank a bit,
it's 1kb smaller, of course because we're talking about very little code here which we shifted
around,
so the majority of the 168kb this here is still development mode
only code which is why we didn't see a huge change but it got a bit smaller.
But what you will also see is that if I now delete something here, now you see the extra files are getting
imported. Now arguably, they're bigger than what we removed
but this is just an example of how you could split your code. For a tiny application like this one, this
here all is probably not worth the hassle because webpack has to add some overhead code because of this
and therefore we might actually end up with more code than before but it shows you the general way of
thinking and if you had more code which you import dynamically like this,
if add product or delete product in product management were more complex functions, then you could save
a lot by only importing them dynamically when they're needed instead of importing them upfront which
we're doing at the moment.
Now in case you wondered why two files were imported when I click delete, keep in mind that my two dynamic
imports here are both pointing at the same file,
so as soon as I need one of them, both actually get added.
So with that, we had a look at the startup time optimizations, though again just to emphasize it here because
of the simplicity of this app and the code here,
of course these optimizations are a bit redundant here or might even lead to slightly more code being
downloaded. The bigger your application is and the bigger the chunk of optional code you have, the more
useful this will be.
What I can show you though if we reload is that if we have a look at that coverage thing again, so I'm reloading
here, take another coverage snapshot, you see here we improved a bit,
we're down to 35%,
so we have less unused code now.
Indeed if you inspect this all now, you see in rendering, this now is detected correctly actually,
that's great
so here we use everything. In products.js, we use everything, and in shop.js, only these functions have
been used yet but this of course is not much code,
everything else is green.
So we have less unused code and therefore we definitely proved that with the help of lazy loading.
Now let's see what else we can do besides the potential startup time improvement
we had a look at here.